GUIDELINE FOR REGISTATION OF NEW BUSINESS
New business registration conditions
1. Under the provisions of Section 5 of Registration of Businesses Act
1956 (ROBA 1956) stipulates that a business must be registered not later
than 30 days from the business starts. Registration must be submitted to
the Registrar/SSM.
2. The registered business must comply with Section 2 (Business
Interpretation) ROBA 1956 and must not be involve in any charity/welfare
activities and any work specified in Schedule (Section 2)
3. The owner or partner must be a Malaysian citizen (MyKad) or
permanent resident (MyPR) and must be at least 18 years old.
4. The business must operate in Peninsular Malaysia and Federal
Territory of Labuan.
New business registration procedure
5. Applicants can submit their application online via
ezbiz.ssm.com.my. Applicants must be registered as an Ezbiz Online user
first. Please refer to the Ezbiz User Guideline User Account Registration
and Ezbiz User Guideline New Business Registration.
6. Please attach / upload relevant supporting documents as follows:
6.1 A copy of partnership agreement (if any)
6.2 Agency permission/confirmation letter (if any), in case if the
business activity requires approval from the relevant agency.
7. Businesses can be registered using the following business names:
7.1 Trade Name - Business name created for commercial
purposes (example Indah Maju Construction, Restoran Seri Nelayan,
Nirmala Trading & Services); and
7.2 Personal Name – Business name that uses the same name as
stated on the identity card (Example Ali Bin Ahmad)
8. The type / activity of the registered business must be appropriate to
the business name, must not be illegal, comply with federal security,
public order or moral principles.
9. Registered business branches (if any) must not be the same as
the principal business address and any other branches.
10. For business ownership, there are several scenarios that need to be
adhered to:
10.1 Businesses registered using "Trade Name" can be registered
either as a Sole Proprietorship or Partnership ( not exceeding
twenty 20 people).
10.2 Businesses registered under “Personal Name” cannot be
registered as partnerships
11. For Partnership, all partners will receive email notification related
to new business registration. Partners need to verify the business
registration application on the Ezbiz Online portal. After the verification is
made by the partner, the payment can be made and sent for processing.
12. Referring to point 11, if there is a partner who wants to be
registered in partnership, but not yet an active Ezbiz Online user (please
refer to point 5), the registration of a partnership business cannot be
done.
Registration Fee
13. Fees for business registration are as follows:
13.1 RM 60 per year Sole Proprietorship or Partnership using
Trade Name
13.2 RM 30 per year A sole proprietorship uses its own name
as stated on the identity card (Personal
Name)
13.3 RM 5 per year Every branch (if any)
13.4 RM 10 Business Information
Note: Registration can be made within one (1) year and up to
five (5) years
General Guidance
14. Any person who conducts on a business without registering the
business commits an offense under the ROBA 1956 and shall upon
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding RM 50,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two (2) years or both.
15. The business owner is responsible for obtaining a business
license/permit, permit or letter of authorisation from the local authority or
relevant agency related to the type/activity of the business conducted
even if it has been registered at SSM.
16. For further information, please contact SSM Contact Centre at 03-
7721 4000 or by email at enquiry@ssm.com.my.